Terraform is a popular Infrastructure as code(IaC)
---------------------------------------------------
Terraform is an open-source tool developed by HashiCorp. Instead of going into AWS Console and manually creating an EC2 instance, we can create by writing terraform script, in olden days people used "CFengine" 
and rightnow people are using chef, puppet, ansible, terraform etc. Till now we configured our project
manually, and also using shellscript, ansible, but we prefer ansible as a configuration management if it 
is large project. Because ansible can connect to more number of servers easily from one single ansible 
server. Why we din't prefer manuall configuration ? Because it is a time taking process, manually logging 
in the servers is timetaking and also we get more human errors.

Advantages of terraform
------------------------
1. Version control
2. Consistent infra
3. Automated Infra CRUD
4. Inventory Management
5. Cost Optimisation
6. Automatic dependency management
7. Modular Infra
8. Hybrid cloud

Version control
----------------
Since it is code, we can maintain in Git to control version. We can completely maintain the history of infra and collaboration is easy. We can also rollback to the previous version incase of any production failure

Consistent infrastructure
--------------------------
Same code will work in all environments like dev,sit,uat,prod. Real time scenario like code is working in 
dev or uat or pre-prod but not working in prod, for this issue we use terraform.

Automated Infrastructure(CRUD)
-------------------------------
Basically CRUD over the infrastructure like below
Create the infra
Read the infra
Update the infra
Delete the infra

Inventory Management
---------------------
Inventory Management in Terraform is nothing but tracking and managing the various infrastructure 
resources that Terraform provisions and maintains. Terraform itself doesn't have a built-in inventory management system, but it provides several features and practices that help in managing and keeping track of infrastructure resources. If we create infra manually it is very tough to maintain the inventory of resources in different regions. But by seeing terraform you can easily tell the resources you are using in which regions. For example if the project is going big. When you login to aws we can see more resources like multiple VPC's, multiple route 53, multiple EC2, multiple load balancers, CDN's, s3 buckets etc. If the client ask for the full details of the project we cannot show one by one in the aws and giving the report is very tough and that is also not a good practice, instead of showing in the aws console we can maintain from the above points, which can be seen in VS in the form of folders of above resources.

Cost optimization
------------------
1. Create when required, delete when not required
2. Automatic dependency management, for example if we need to create route53 records, ec2 servers 
   should be in the running, take those IP and then paste in the route53, that means route53 is 
   depending on ec2 servers, so we can create resources and terraform will takecare of dependencies.
3. Terraform modules ---> You can create terraform code as modules, so that other projects can also 
   use it without writing from the scratch
4. Terraform is also a hybrid cloud that means you can create infra in aws, azure, GCP not only 
   cloud, terraform can also work with any other popular tools in the market, you can see in the 
   terraform providers website, it can work with many other providers or you can write your own 
   module and connect with the terrform also. Not only resources we can also create repos, branches 
   etc. with terraform.
The above all are the terraform understanding(Interview Question). It is a declarative way of creating infrastructure, what is declarative ---> whatever you write you get it if you write correct syntax, and 
it is easy syntax and no need to follow the sequence in the code. If anybody edit manually in the aws console, and we find it is very difficult to trace who did it, but in terraform if anybody did changes 
and we can restore infrastructure immediately by just one command, then we can discuss who did it later

Terraform installation and setup
---------------------------------
1. Download terraform from google mostly AMD64 windows, if you download and extract you will 
   get .exe file
2. Move that .exe file in your desired location, downloading is not enough still it will show 
   terraform command not found.
3. Take this downloaded path and give it in the "system environment variable"
4. Search in the laptop ---> Edit the system environment variables --> environment variables -->
   select or click on the path in the system variables --> edit --> new --> paste it here
5. If you give the terraform command it will check all paths you have given in the environment
   variables, if it avaiable then terraform command will work
6. Install "hashicorp terraform extension" to get colors

We write code in VS ---> then we push to github ---> then we push to the aws, but in order to push to the 
aws we need authentication for that we have "awsCLI" for this go to the google and search "aws cli install" just run shown commands in "cmd" from the command prompt, then test "aws --version" in cmd aswel as in 
gitbash select windows to install not linux or macos. So to connect we need to create a terraform user or administrator user by going to IAM/users/create(next)/attach policies directly and select administrator access/ --> click on your created user/security credentials/create accesskey/click on command line interface(CLI)/copy the accesskey and secretkey then -----> "aws configure" in gitbash --> these credentials will be saved in --> windowsC/users/user/.aws folder

Lets create ec2 instance
-------------------------
resource "what resource" "name of your resource" {

}

1. This syntax we call HCL(Hashicorp Configuration Language) 
2. Here also we have variables/conditions/loops/functions/datatypes
3. So rightnow we are using terraform for the aws so search terraform providers --> Select aws 
   provider if you dont give the provider terraform will not know to work with which provider ? 
   and .tf is the extension of terraform file
4. Just go through session-01/ec2.tf,provider.tf,varibles.tf in the VS, where ec2 with SG is created 
   using terraform, Just type "terraform ec2 in the google"
5. Where to run the terraform commands ? ---> Where ever .tf files exists, like for example go
   the directory session01/ec2/ec2.tf and provider.tf ---> Here you should run the command.

Terraform commands
-------------------
1. terraform init --> Initialize the provider, it will download the aws plugins or provider in
   ".terraform" folder is created to download the provider
2. terraform plan --> Terraform will calculate full details and show it or it is just a plan
   it will not create, it will show the preview of the changes. Terraform compares the infra between 
   declared and existing. This is only plan terraform will not create
3. terraform apply --> Now it will create
4. terraform apply -auto-approve --> Not ask for prompt
5. terraform destroy -auto-approve --> Not ask for prompt
6. All the above commands should be run in the gitbash

Variables
----------
variable "name-of-variable" {
     type = datatype
     default = "default value"
}

Terraform will automatically consider which datatype is so no need to give datatype but for practice we need 

Points to remember
*******************
1. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/3.34.0/docs/resources/security_group
   terraform registry website to see all examples
2. Just go through the "README" file in the sivagithub terraform "https://github.com/daws-76s/terraform"
3. Go through the session-01 in terraform VS we have created ec2 with security group along with variables
4. In provider we can give access_key and secret_key under region to authenticate to aws, when you push 
   to github then github will send emails to notify, but it is not recommended because anyone can 
   use your aws account and they can create anything in aws. So thats why we downloaded awsCLI to
   authenticate to aws account which is a secure way.
5. Important point to remember, you no need to push to the github, you can directly save the terraform
   file and run the terraform commands in gitbash and later you can push to the github to save the files.
   later green colour will change to the normal colour
6. Dont push the accesskey and secretkey to the github or internet for safety
